# 1.1-SNAPSHOT

This file describes the changes from 1.0-SNAPSHOT to 1.1-SNAPSHOT.
**Backward compatibility has been lost**.

## Breaking changes

### Remove @UnsafeProvider

The annotation `@UnsafeProvider` has been deleted, as its usage was not
well defined and it brought misunderstanding about the intent of the
`ObjectProvider` object, the latter being more often unsafe than actually safe.

### Review naming of classes

Class naming has been reviewed.
1. `Maybe` is now called `Property`: it represents a property of an object
2. `Property` is now `PropertyToken`, as it allows one to get back a property
from a provider
3. `VMonad` is now `MonadOfProperty` to stress the idea that it really is a
monad whose elements are properties.

### No usage of `execute`

Adding a step in a validation process is not a lazy operation anymore.
In particular, we do not require the `execute` method: adding a step already computes
the result.

This feature allows the step-by-step build of the object as an interwined process
withing the validation. In particular, we can use validated data for further validation.

## Non breaking changes

### Enum in unit tests

In order to mark the intention of a strongly typed property system, the unit
tests have been rewritten using enum instread of on-the-fly properties.

### Facility method to validate collection

To validate a collection, the method `addCollectionSteps` has been added to
the `ValidationProcess`.

### Add failure marker on property

To detect if a property is in failure, one can now use the `boolean isFailure()`
method.
