# 2.3-SNAPSHOT

This file describes the changes from 2.2 to 2.3.
**Backward compatibility has been lost**.

## Breaking changes

### Renaming of `MonadFactory`

The `MonadFactory` static helpers have been renamed to `Monads`.
This follows the usual Java convention that static helpers for a class
are centralized in a class of the same name, with plural mark.

### Splitting of `ValidationProcess`

The `ValidationProcess` class have been split.
Static helpers are now in the `ValidationProcesses` class, while a
validation process is now an instance of the
`AutoCommitValidationProcess`.

This stresses the fact that each new step on a process is auto
executed.

As such, the `addStep` and `addCollectionStep` methods were renamed to
`performStep` and `performCollectionStep`.

The `AutoCommitValidationProcess` class has a private constructor.
The factory method is found in `ValidationProcesses`.

### [Errata] `Iterator` utils removed

The `Iterator` utils method `addCollectionStep` review to be concerned
with `Iterable`. This follows a Java programming idiom, and should ease
integration with list utils.

## Non breaking changes

### `FailureBuilder` new method

The `FailureBuilder` is now a functional interface. An additional method has been
added to allow registration of `Failure`.

### `Property` can register a `Failure`

Following the previous change, `Property` can now register `Failure`
directly, without directly requiring a code computation.

### `SimpleBox` class knows emptyness

The `SimpleBox` class knows if its empty or not.
This should allow better null references management.

## Forthcoming changes

Before going any further with the library extension (see 3.1-SNAPSHOT-PREVIEW),
a robust and complete unit tests pool should be done for any member
of the current implementations.

There is also a planning to create a new validation process type that
is going to *memoize results* as an internal state.
This should allow easier code generation.
